---
title: "Workshop at ADHO DH 2017, Montréal"
date: 2017-01-01
draft: false
---

During the DH2017 conference in Montreal, the AVinDH SIG will organize
it's third workshop on Monday 7 August 2017. This year's theme will be
**Computer Vision in Digital Humanities**.

This workshop will focus on how computer vision can be applied within the realm of Audiovisual Materials in Digital Humanities. During the workshop, attendees will both present (ongoing) work on applying computer vision and experiment with computer vision in their own work in a hands-on session.


Further documents & details:

-   The workshop will be in room Arts W-20.

-   A keynote by Lindsay
    King and Peter
    Leonard (Yale University) on "**Processing Pixels: Towards
    Visual Culture Computation**". The talk will focus on an array of algorithmic image analysis techniques, from simple to cutting-edge, on materials ranging from 19th century photography to 20th century fashion magazines. We'll consider colormetrics, hue extraction, facial detection, and neural network-based visual similarity. We'll also consider the opportunities and challenges of obtaining and working with large-scale image collections.

-   **Paper presentations**. Papers have been selected by a review
    commission. All details can be found on the [Call for
    Abstracts](https://avindhsig.wordpress.com/workshop-2017-montreal/call-for-abstract/)
    at the website. 

-   A **hands-on session** to experiment with open source Computer Vision tools. This session will be led by Benoit Seguin of École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, (EPFL). Benoit Seguin is a PhD Student in Computer Science from the DHLAB at EPFL. His work focuses on automatic patterns detection across iconographic collections. Before starting his PhD, he worked with microscope images for biomedical applications or electronic manufacturing problems.

-   **Lightning Talks** allowing participants to share their ideas, projects or ongoing work in a short presentation of two minutes.