---
title: "Workshop at ADHO DH 2019, Utrecht"
date: 2019-01-01
draft: false
---

DH2019's theme Complexities asks the field "to focus on DH as the
humanist way of building complex models of complex realities, analysing
them with computational methods and communicating the results to a
broader public." Understanding the diversity of the human experience
means turning to diverse sources, which includes the different forms in
which people produce knowledge and communicate ways of knowing. One way
that people make and communicate meaning is through audio and visuals.
Forms such as drawing, film, and radio construct, convey, and circulate
our complexities including beliefs, values, and histories. Analyzing
these forms has become an increased object of study within DH; a field
which has traditionally focused on text. With this move from the
periphery to the center of audio and visual (AV), scholars are turning
to computational methods to increase the discovery, analysis, and
accessibility of AV materials.

In collaboration with CLARIAH WP5 Media
Studies and Audiovisual data, the AVinDH SIG Workshop will bring
together DH scholars interested in analyzing AV materials. All DH2019
attendees are welcome to join. One does not have to be a member of the
AVinDH SIG, although we would be delighted to have you join our
mailinglist here!

The day-long workshop will include:

-   **Hands-on Sessions** that share approaches and methods for
    computational image and audio analysis.
-   **Lightning Shorts** where participants can share briefly share
    projects, with a focus on works in progress

The Lightning Shorts session will focus on current research in AV DH.
 Each participant will have five-minutes to introduce their work. Participants in the lightning shorts must also sign-up for the day-long AVinDH workshop.

**Convenors**:

-   Lauren Tilton (University of Richmond,
    USA)
-   Jasmijn van Gorp (University of Utrecht, Netherlands)

