---
title: "Workshop at ADHO DH 2024, Washington D.C."
date: 2024-01-01
draft: false
---

DH2024's theme "Reinvention & Responsibility" focuses on reinventing our
selves and methods to better responsibly connect with the communities
around us. In accordance, the AVinDH SIG embraces this spirit of
Reinvention and Responsibility by bringing together those interested in
analyzing AV materials, and exploring ways that we can study these
materials anew,reflect on and connect with our Digital Humanities
communities broadly conceived. This workshop will take place on Tuesday,
August 6th, 2024.

All DH2024 attendees are welcome to join. One does not have to be a
member of the AVinDH SIG, although we would be delighted to have you
join our mailing list
[here](https://groups.google.com/u/2/g/avindh?pli=1)!

The Lightning Shorts session will focus on current research in AV DH. 
Each participant will have five-minutes to introduce their work.
Participants in the lightning shorts must also sign-up for the day-long
AVinDH workshop.

## Conveners

-   Lauren Tilton, University of Richmond, USA
-   Taylor Arnold, University of Richmond, USA
-   Justin Wigard, University of North Dakota, USA
-   Laurent Tessier, Institut Catholique de Paris, France
-   Michaël Bourgatte, Catholic University of Paris, Huma-Num Consortium, Canevas, France
-   Tanya E. Clement, University of Texas, USA
-   Kristen Mapes, Michigan State University, USA

For questions, please email: Lauren Tilton at ltilton@richmond.edu

## Location 

Van Metre Hall 121

## Tutorial: Curating Oral Histories with Data 

Averaging one to two hours in length, oral history interviews produce
vast amounts of unstructured or semi-structured human language. The
archives that house oral history interviews can be rich sites of
exploration---if visitors can avoid getting overwhelmed.In this
workshop, we will discuss strategies for curating vast amounts of audio for the public using artificial intelligence and statistical methods.

Using our Obama Presidency Oral History and the Elders Project digital
archives as case studies, together we will work through key processes
and decision points, as well as their implications.Workshop participants
will develop a sense of what tools are available when using data to
curate, strategies for working with large audio archives, and ways of
thinking about how to make these tools work toward a project's design
goals.No prior experience in oral history or programming necessary.

**Chris Pandza** is a designer and oral historian at Columbia University whose practice focuses on making oral history archives more interesting, accessible, and equitable. Pandza has led public-facing design for the Obama Presidency Oral History and Elders Project.

**Madeline Alexander** is a public historian and Project Manager for the Elders Project. With a Masters in Public History from the University of York and extensive experience in historical narrative and media ethics, she has served in various roles, including Engagement Coordinator for Black Communities at History Colorado and Co-creator/Historical Consultant for the award-winning documentary short "Isle of Mine".