---
title: "Workshop at ADHO DH 2025, Lisbon, Portugal"
date: 2025-01-01
draft: false
---

The theme of the DH2025 emphasizes openness and accessibility of
scholarly knowledge. Following this idea, the AVinDH SIG invites all the
interested parties -- from complete novices to hard core wizards -- to
join our workshop to discuss the present status and future avenues of
research on AV materials within the DH.

All DH2025 attendees are welcome to join. One does not have to be a
member of the AVinDH SIG, although we would be delighted to have you
join our mailing list
[here](https://groups.google.com/u/2/g/avindh?pli=1)!

## Workshop Contents

Time: Monday July 14th at 1:30 PM - 7:00 PM (appears in the conference
program as only until 5 PM, but we have reserved the room until 8:00 PM)

Location: B302 (TB)

### 1:30 PM -- 1:45 PM Opening Remarks

Opening remarks.

### 1:45 PM -- 3:00 PM Unconference

1. Introductions
  a. Where you coming from?
  b. What brings you here?
  c. Which fantasy character represents you the best?
2. Group Brainstorming
  a. Tools and Methods
  b. Journals, Venues, Conferences
  c. Datasets
  d. Tutorials, Teaching materials, Resources
3. Group Discussion
  a. Where do you see the field go next?
  b. What emerging topics, materials or phenomena can you recognize?
  c. Are there topics to focus on next year?

### 3:00 PM- 3:30 PM Lightning talks

The Lightning Shorts session will focus on current research in AV DH.
Each participant will have five-minutes to introduce their work.
Participants in the lightning shorts must also sign-up for the day-long
AVinDH workshop.

- Peter Broadwell (Stanford) Body and hands pose/gesture stylometry using modern and historical embeddings
- Giacomo Alliata (EPFL) – Interactive and immersive installations of the Narratives from the Long Tail project
- Giles Bergel (University of Oxford) – VGG WISE - a new multimodal audiovisual discovery tool
- Daniel Chávez Heras (King's College London) – Project: Intelligent Systems for Screen Archives (https://www.kcl.ac.uk/research/issa)
- Mila Oiva (University of Turku) Detecting and Quantifying Visual Leninism
- Taylor Arnold (Richmond) – Distant Viewing Explorer and Distant Viewing Scripts

### 3:30 PM - 4:00 PM coffee break

### 4:00 PM -- 6:00 PM Arvest tutorial

A hands-on tutorial on Arvest, an app for multimodal data work by Jacob
Hart and Clarisse Bardiot. This is an open-source and free-to-use tool
built around the IIIF. The participants are encouraged to bring their
computers so that they can create an account and immediately start
creating content. Arvest is developed by the ERC funded
[STAGE](https://stage-to-data.huma-num.fr/en/) project. Link to the
tool: <https://arvest.app/en>

### 6:00 -- 6:30 PM wrap up

## Conveners:

- Taylor Arnold, University of Richmond, USA
- Mila Oiva, University of Turku, Finland
- Justin Wigard, University of North Dakota, USA

For questions, please email Mila Oiva at **milaoiv@utu.fi**.